[MUSIC]
>> Scott Moss: That's the whole
point of services and factors and
why we talk about them.
Because we have those, we have that
static data in our, what was it,
the block controller.
So we want to get rid of that and
store that state somewhere else.
So we shouldn't store state
in our components for
the same reason we should store
state in our controllers.
As before,
you learned all this stuff yesterday.
All right, so anybody know why do we don't
wanna store state in our controllers?
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: Kinda conflating concerns
isn't it?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah it is,
conflating concerns.
>> Speaker 3: Hard to test right?
>> Scott Moss: It is hard to test.
Anything else?
>> Scott Moss: What if we wanna share that
state with other controllers?
Or, controllers are volatile
they're bound to some template,
which is probably balance and
route somewhere and
when you navigate away from that thing,
the state goes with it.
So it's gonna be erased or
exit controller's gonna be
re-initialized every time.
So all your states gone.
It's like you hit refresh on
a browser when you navigate.
You probably don't want that.
You probably want that
state to stay the same,
because the thing you're navigating
to is relying on it as well.
So, putting state in
something that's volatile,
something that's meant to be destroyed and
rebuilt.
It's probably not a good idea.
I can put this stuff in the database or
I cannot.
That's the difference, so
putting aside our factory service,
which is not bound to a view,
which is great.
It'll stay there until you hit refresh.
So that's all, you want to put it there,
and we can share it across multiple
whoever wants it, whatever controller,
whatever component wants it.
So that's why Angular has services,
just for that reason.
So the location of the definition
of the service is dependent on what
components need it.
And what I mean by that is if
we go back and go over here.
To go to the way our
directory structure is.
So if you were on step five,
if you checkout step/five you'll see a new
folder called shared, some stuff in here.
So what I'm saying is the location of
where the stuff is defined is dependant on
what needs it, so
if we code inside our components.
And we're like okay we're gonna make
this new factory this new service,
but it's only gonna be for blog.
Only blog needs this factor of service.
So we create it in here, cuz that's
the only thing that's gonna use it.
So we can make another folder, or you
can just put it right here on the root,
however you wanna do it.
But we definitely make it in this folder.
All right, but let's say blog and
home needed it.
All right, so what we would
do there is we're like, okay,
we need to go up one directory to
a common parent and create it there.
So that's why I have shared.
So sharing it would allow pretty much all
components to be able to use whatever.
Does that makes sense?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, so
there's more than one component that you
need to register it at a common parent.
I just chose the word share.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: So if you create a service-
>> Scott Moss: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 2: And you create separate
services for each controller, or
you create a service that has
multiple functions, that you can use.
Is this different from just
adding it as a service?
I know it's confusing, but then dollar
sign, I actually don't use dollar sign,
but whatever you named your service and
passing it to that controller, so
that you can use methods that you show,
like returning.
>> Scott Moss: Right.
>> Speaker 2: So, does that matter where
it lives or
does it matter where you use it?
>> Scott Moss: It definitely matters,
well technically I guess it
doesn't matter where it lives,
because they're all gonna be registered
eventually on the root module.
So eventually they'll all
be able to use it, but
when it comes to testing it'll break
because you put it in the wrong place.
And then as far as like injecting it,
yeah, it'll be the same thing, if you just
have one service that you created it'll
be the same state the same stuff.
But if you made it each time for
each component,
it's gonna completely different, right?
What's going to happen,
especially if you give it the same name.
The latest one to be registered
would overwrite the previous ones.
>> Speaker 4: Question from
on line Scott.
>> Scott Moss: Yes.
>> Speaker 4: Should services be
stateless and factories be stateful?
Or does it matter?
>> Scott Moss: I don't think it matters.
There probably is a deeper
meaning behind those two,
but I don't think it really matters.
I mean.
A service is a constructor function.
I mean if you want to store some state in
there, you probably gonna have to, but
I can see the argument of services
not having that state in factories,
having state.
That's probably why they
return different values.
But deeper down a little
more in depth than angular.
They're all technically
just called providers.
So that's a little more advanced stuff,
but all these are just call providers and
the providers would make this stuff.
So they really all just the same
thing with a different syntax.
So, but yeah,
I can see the argument that might
be a good way to figure
out what you want to use.
So, I would probably be for it, but
I just don't use services at all.
It's either factories or providers.
That's it, I don't use anything else.
Cool, any questions so far?
Nope.
Okay, so
the big idea about services especially,
with components.
Is to hold our application state and
define an API to interact with that
state and expose it to a controller or
another service again.
I'm not talking about the service method,
I'm talking about services in general.
So we had the we had the state in the
blogs the block controllers, now here's
an example of like a to do factory or to
do service that is actually keeping state.
It is in charge of keeping the state which
is here, which is defined here, all right?
So we have this array of to do's and
we have these methods that we
create to interact with the state.
And then we just expose those
methods by returning them, and
then on anything that
injects this factory.
Now can indirectly interact with
the state by invoking these
this API that we created.
So this is called like
the revealing module pattern, so
design pattern in JavaScript.
So anything that we put in this
object is gonna be a public method or
a public property.
So notice we didn't actually put
the to do's array on this object.
We don't want you directly
interacting with the todosArray.
We only want you to interact with it the
way we meant for you to interact with it,
and that's by placing
these methods on here.
All right, so the only thing you can do
is you can get one or you can get all or
you can create one.
That's it, you can't do anything else.
You can't delete,
you can't do none of that stuff.
So if you got a reference
to todos by returning all,
then you're deleting your controller, then
you'll just be deleting your reference,
it's still gonna exist here.
All right?
So this is a good example,
a very small example, too,
of how you would actually keep state.
So this is going to be here forever,
until you refresh the browser,
the state won't go anywhere.
It doesn't matter how many routes you hit,
what controller you're on or
view you're on, it's gonna stay here.
And if you use this same todos across
multiple places in your application,
it's still the same state.
It doesn't reinitialize it every time.
This todos array is still gonna stay here,
nothing's gonna change.
It's only gonna be initialized
that first time and that's it.
So it's like a cache really.
Any questions on that?
>> Scott Moss: Okay,
so what we'll do instead is,
this is great.
This is great, but this is like
a inline factory as you can see,
you literally just made like an anonymous
function here In place of the line.
So this is cool, but
we're doing a component approach and
we want everything to be broken out right?
And we'd rather take advantage of ES2015
and use less of Angular when possible.
So that's what we're gonna do.
So we're gonna break this function out,
and
then build it somewhere else and
register it with Angular later.
Exactly like you did with the controllers.
Exactly like you do with the directives.
They were just functions and
other files and
then you imported them some at some
point in time and told Angular about it.
But if you start thinking about
it really unlike controllers and
directives where like they actually have
to be registered with Angular to work.
Like a directive just won't work, unless
you tell Angular about it, but controller.
I guess you might be able get it
to work without Angular about it.
But you still have to
tell Angular about it.
But with a factory service,
if you think about it you really don't.
You don't have to register with Angular,
cuz it's just, I mean a factory is just
a function that returns something and
a service is a noble function.
So with that being said,
you don't really have to tell Angular, hey
I'm gonna make a new service in a factory.
You could just import the factory service
and whatever file you want to use and
start using it, like regular JavaScript.
You can do that, and you probably will
get some unexpected side effects.
So I would not recommend doing,
I would still recommend just
telling Angular about that stuff.
That way, if you want to bring it along
with you to another application or
your open source or
some stuff it'll be a lot easier.
So, I highly recommend telling
Angular look, here's a factory,
here's a service, here's a cost whatever.
First it's just like going
inside your controller, and
importing the raw JavaScript of
that factory and start using it.
I wouldn't do that.
Although it would work the same.
Does that make sense,
the argument that I'm saying there?
>> Speaker 2: Still be treated as
a singleton note?
>> Speaker 5: Cuz I thought angular
container handles all that.
>> Scott Moss: Right.
So if you're actually using the dot
service method you would have to do some.
You'd have to create your own signals and
type thing because you have
some issues there and yeah.
The factory too, so
you'd have to figure out how to do that.
Whereas angular is like caching that,
right?
So yeah,
you definitely have some problems.
That's why I recommend don't doing it.
>> Scott Moss: Any questions on that?
Yo.
>> Speaker 6: So
you don't like to use services.
But let's say you do want to use some
single ten or something like that.
Do you have a technique for doing that, or
do you try to?
>> Scott Moss: Well if you use a factory.
So if you just want to use a singleton.
Which is, if you're a stantiated that
singleton from some constructor function,
which you probably are.
Just instantiated inside of factory,
and return that instance-
>> Speaker 6: And saving it for everyone.
Okay.
>> Scott Moss: Correct.
Then you're fine, yeah.